SignalManager README.md -  First Draft (#10806)
microsoft/FluidFramework: experimental/framework/data-objects/src/signalManager/README.md

- `offSignal(signalName: string, listener: SignalListener)` - Removes a listener for the specified signal. Same behavior as EventEmitter's `off` method.

## Common Patterns
### Signal Request
When a client joins a collaboration session, they may need to receive pertinent information immediately after connecting the container.  To support this, they can request a specific signal be sent to them from other connected clients within the application. For example, in the [FocusTracker](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/tree/main/examples/data-objects/focus-tracker) we define a "focusRequest" signal type that a newly joining client uses to request the focus-state of each currently connected client:

```typescript
private static readonly focusRequestType = "focusRequest";
```

```typescript
container.on("connected", () => {
    this.signalManager.submitSignal(FocusTracker.focusRequestType);
});
```

The connected clients are listening to this focus request signal, and they respond with their current focus state:

```typescript
this.signalManager.onSignal(FocusTracker.focusRequestType, () => {
    this.sendFocusSignal(document.hasFocus());
});
```

> When there are a lot of connected clients, usage of this request pattern can lead to high signal costs incurred from large amounts of signals being submitted all at the same time. While this pattern is helpful when a client is in need of relevant information, to limit signal costs it would be beneficial to examine whether or not the requested data will be quickly avaiable from other events being listened to within the application. Take [MouseTracker]() as an example, a newly connecting client is not required to request a signal to receive every current mouse position on the document. Since mouse movements are frequent, the newly connecting client can simply wait to recieve other users mouse positions on their mousemove events.

Author: I plan on linking the MouseTracker example so I can reference it more in the docs. One of my next tasks is finding on where/what it should be (Fluid Repo, Fluid Examples Repo, Fluid Recipe, etc.)

> When there are a lot of connected clients, usage of this request pattern can lead to high signal costs incurred from large amounts of signals being submitted all at the same time. While this pattern is helpful when a client is in need of relevant information, to limit signal costs it would be beneficial to examine whether or not the requested data will be quickly avaiable from other events being listened to within the application. Take [MouseTracker]() as an example, a newly connecting client is not required to request a signal to receive every current mouse position on the document. Since mouse movements are frequent, the newly connecting client can simply wait to recieve other users mouse positions on their mousemove events.

Author: I plan on linking the MouseTracker example so I can reference it in the docs. I currently don't know where it should be so one of my next tasks is deciding where the MouseTracker will be (Fluid repo, Fluid Examples, Fluid Recipe, etc.)

> **_Documentation is a work-in-progress_**
> 
> ## SignalManager

Reviewer: If you have concrete known followups on the documentation this is fine to leave in, but otherwise not needed.

```suggestion
# SignalManager
```

The `SignalManager` is a DataObject that can be used to communicate transient data via signals.

> ### Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Usage
```

> The `SignalManager` is a DataObject that can be used to communicate transient data via signals.
> 
> ### Usage
> `SignalManager` is the most appropriate tool to share transient data using Fluid.  Transient data refers to short-lived and impermanent information that is not required to be persisted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SignalManager` is a DataObject that can be used to communicate transient data via signals. Transient data refers to impermanent information that is not persisted with the container.

### Usage
```

> User presence scenarios are key examples of situations where sending transient data is of interest, as users are required to tell other users their own information and their past data is mostly irrelavant. Using `SignalManager` over other distributed data strucurtes in these scenarios is beneficial, as it's usage does not result in the storage of data that is not useful in the long-term.

Reviewer: Prefer active voice

```suggestion
User presence scenarios are well-suited for `SignalManager`, as users are required to tell other users their own information and their past data is mostly irrelavant. Using `SignalManager` over other distributed data structures in these scenarios is beneficial, as its usage does not result in the storage of data that is not useful in the long-term.
```

### Creation

> Just like with DDSes, the `FluidContainer` provides a container schema where you can include `SignalManager` as a shared object you would like to load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like with DDSes, you can include `SignalManager` as a shared object you would like to load in your `FluidContainer` schema.
```

Here is a look at how you would go about loading `SignalManager` as part of the initial objects of the container:

> ```typescript

Reviewer: Overall this section has good documentation of creating objects using a `ContainerSchema`.  However, it might be better to just show an appropriate ContainerSchema once and then link to docs\content\docs\build\data-modeling.md for the full explanation of the flow, so that this documentation can be more concise and SignalManager-specific.

const containerSchema: ContainerSchema = {
    initialObjects: {
        signalManager: SignalManager,
    },
};

> const { container, services } =  await client.createContainer(containerSchema);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const { container, services } = await client.createContainer(containerSchema);
```

> const signalManager = container.initialObjects.signalManager as SignalManager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const signalManager = container.initialObjects.signalManager as SignalManager;
```

```

`signalManager` can then be directly used in your Fluid application!

If you are loading an existing container the process is the same except you would use `getContainer` instead of `createContainer`:

```typescript
const containerSchema: ContainerSchema = {
    initialObjects: {
        signalManager: SignalManager,
    },
};

> const { container, services } =  await client.getContainer(id, containerSchema);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const { container, services } = await client.getContainer(id, containerSchema);
```

> const signalManager = container.initialObjects.signalManager as SignalManager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const signalManager = container.initialObjects.signalManager as SignalManager;
```

```

To dynamically create `SignalManager` instances it is the same process as with DDSes as well. You add the `SignalManager` type to `dynamicObjectTypes` in the container schema and then use the `create` function on the container:

```typescript
const containerSchema: ContainerSchema = {
    /*...*/
    dynamicObjectTypes: [ SignalManager ]
};

const { container, services } =  await client.getContainer(id, containerSchema);

const newSignalManager = await container.create(SignalManager) //Creates a new SignalManager instance
```

> 

Reviewer: Nit: Here and throughout, limit to a single blank line at a time

> ### API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## API
```

`SignalManager` provides a few simple methods to send signals and add/remove listeners to specific signals as well:
- `submitSignal(signalName: string, payload?: Jsonable)` - Sends a signal with a payload to its connected listeners
- `onSignal(signalName: string, listener: SignalListener)` - Adds a listener for the specifies signal. Same behavior as EventEmitter's `on` method.

> - `offSignal(signalName: string, listener: SignalListener | ((message: any) => void))` - Removes a listener for the specified signal. Same behavior as EventEmitter's `off` method.

Reviewer: The `((message: any) => void)` seems like a mistake in the API, since it makes `onSignal` and `offSignal` asymmetric.  Also, the implementation of `offSignal` seems to only take a `SignalListener`.  Probably the interface should be changed to match.

> ### Common Patterns
> #### Signal Request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Common Patterns
### Signal Request
```

> There are some scenarios where a client would like to request a specific signal be sent to them from other connected clients within the application. One main use case for this pattern is when a newly joining client needs to recieve pertinent information immediatley after connecting the container. For example, in the [FocusTracker](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/tree/main/examples/data-objects/focus-tracker) we define a new focus request signal type that is used when a newly joining client requests to recieve the focus-state of each currently connected client:

Reviewer: Leading with the need and following with the approach can make it easier to follow sometimes.

```suggestion
When a client joins a collaboration session, they may need to receive pertinent information immediately after connecting the container.  To support this, they can request a specific signal be sent to them from other connected clients within the application. For example, in the [FocusTracker](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/tree/main/examples/data-objects/focus-tracker) we define a "focusRequest" signal type that a newly joining client uses to request the focus-state of each currently connected client:
```

```typescript

>  private static readonly focusRequestType = "focusRequest";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
private static readonly focusRequestType = "focusRequest";
```

```

```typescript
container.on("connected", () => {

>             this.signalManager.submitSignal(FocusTracker.focusRequestType);
>         });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    this.signalManager.submitSignal(FocusTracker.focusRequestType);
});
```

```

> We then must have the connected clients listening to this focus request signal, so they can respond with their current focus state:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The connected clients are listening to this focus request signal, and they respond with their current focus state:
```

```typescript
this.signalManager.onSignal(FocusTracker.focusRequestType, () => {

>             this.sendFocusSignal(document.hasFocus());
>         });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    this.sendFocusSignal(document.hasFocus());
});
```

```

> To reiterate, this pattern is not necessary for all use cases but it can be helpful when a client is in need of relevant information that won't be quickly available from other events being listened to.

Reviewer: Should also talk about the negatives (lots of signals sent) - could talk about an alternate approach of just letting the newly-joined client wait patiently for the next update.
